are you considering getting into options
trading if so you came to the right
place in this video we're going to look
at the differences between stocks and
options as well as the advantages and
disadvantages of both after watching
this video you should know which of
these trading paradigms is right for you
and how to get started with that being
said let's start breaking down the pros
and cons of trading options vs. stocks
the first advantage that stocks offer
compared to options is that stocks give
you equity whereas options don't buying
stock gives the ownership rights of that
company
these rights could include the right to
receive dividends voting rights and more
options on the other hand offer none of
these benefits especially for passive
long-term investing this can be a
deal-breaker another factor that speaks
for stocks / options is liquidity
compared to stocks options are much less
liquid since there are so many different
options the daily volume of an option
will almost always be lower than the
volume of his underlying asset a daily
volume of a few thousand contracts of an
option is considered very good whereas
the same volume would be considered
terrible liquidity for stocks with that
being said there are many securities
with very liquid options typically if
the stock is very liquid its options
will also offer good liquidity so if you
focus on the right securities and the
right option contracts this shouldn't
make too big of a difference
nevertheless is important to always
check the liquidity of an option before
trading it even though stocks tend to be
more liquid than options they also tend
to be much more expensive than options
you need much less buying power to
effectively trade options than to trade
stocks a single option contract controls
100 shares of the underlying stock and
you can easily buy an option contract
for $100 or less even if the underlying
stock is worth hundreds of dollars
itself
this means that options allow you to
trade in these big name stocks without
actually requiring you to have a huge
trading account
besides stocks you can also trade
options on exchange-traded funds market
indexes futures commodities and more in
addition to requiring much less buying
power than stocks options also allow you
to be much more versatile with your
trading in a certain sense trading
stocks is boring you never have more
than two possibilities you can either
buy or sell the given stock besides
buying to open the stock position you
can also short sell the stock if you
have a margin account with enough funds
but if you have a cash account you can
literally only go long this restricts
your trading tremendously with options
the options are literally endless you
can build a perfect position for every
market scenario imaginable let me show
you a specific example to prove this
point for this let's take a look at
Microsoft's recent price chart as you
can see at the time of making this
Microsoft was trading at around 184
dollars if you're only trading stocks
you could buy Microsoft at the current
trading price and make money if
Microsoft's price rises for every $1
increase in Microsoft's price you earn
one dollar for every share of Microsoft
that you own but each of these shares
will cost you 184 dollars to own so to
own 50 shares of Microsoft you would
already have to put down close to
$10,000 if you have a margin account
with enough capital it could also short
their Microsoft doing this would allow
you to profit from a drop in Microsoft's
price so to recap as a stock trader
Microsoft's prize either has to rise or
drop a lot for you to really make money
if it stays right where it is or only
moves a little bit the stock position
wouldn't really be worth it as an
options trader however you could
construct any position you wanted to you
could mark any price levels on this
chart and you would be able to create an
option position that has these exact
price levels as it spread even points in
fact you would probably even be able to
create multiple different option
positions with different payoff profiles
with these exact breakeven points for
instance
let's mark $163 and $208 certainly a
very wide price range here you can see
an option strategy with such break-even
points as you can see this strategy
profits if Microsoft's price stays
between 163 and $208 note that options
have a fixed expiration date this means
you will always have to assign a max
timeframe to your options trades this
timeframe can be everything from a few
days up to multiple years so if you
expect Microsoft's price to stay in
between 163 and 208 dollars over the
next two months this position will be
perfect
you would never be able to express this
market assumption with only stocks next
up let's look at a different example you
think over the next 70 days Microsoft's
price will make a big move but you
aren't sure in which direction the
reason for the move could be upcoming
events technical indicators or anything
else by only using stocks you would have
to decide which direction you want to
bet on but with options at your disposal
you could construct a position such as
this one as you can see the further
Microsoft's price moves the greater this
positions profit the direction of
Microsoft's price move is completely
irrelevant as long as the price moves in
one direction this position only losses
if you market assumption was dead wrong
and Microsoft's price doesn't bother at
all let's look at one last example
before we move on this time you think
Microsoft will stay below $200 over the
next few weeks but you aren't sure where
the Microsoft's price might drop or not
then this option strategy might be a
good choice as you can see this strategy
is profitable as long as Microsoft's
price stays below 200 $5 until the
expiration date but the best possible
case would be if Microsoft's price rises
slightly to $190 onto the expiration
date but even if Microsoft's price drops
hugely you would still achieve a profit
hopefully these examples gave you a good
first impression of the versatility that
options offer instead of being a limb
to buying and selling the underlying
stock options allow you to profit from
almost any market scenario imaginable
this gives you a much more dynamic and
precise approach to trading that's also
the reason why professional trading
firms such as hedge funds or investment
banks use options and other derivatives
to engineer the perfect position for
exactly their market view besides using
options to gain directional exposure to
a security you can also trade options to
gain exposure to factors that stock
simply aren't affected body you could
for example construct a position that
generates a profit every day as long as
a certain securities price stays below a
specified price level in other words you
can put a deadline on a stocks ability
to surpass a chosen price level if the
stock fails to move beyond this price
level within the specified time frame
you get paid besides time you can also
bet on changes in volatility if you
believe that X Y Z's volatility will
decrease or increase over the next 40
days there's an optional strategy that
profits from exactly that instead of
only trading on one security you can
also combine option strategies over
multiple assets different time frames
markets price ranges risk levels and
much more it's also possible to combine
stock and options positions for purposes
such as hedging or increasing profit
potential with that being said options
do come with an added learning curve
compared to stocks stocks are rather
basic trading vehicles which is why they
are so easy to understand so if you
aren't willing to put in the time to
really understand options you should
stick to stocks but in my opinion the
time it takes to learn options trading
is 100% worth it if you want to start
your options trading journey I highly
recommend checking out my free options
trading courses on trade options with me
calm now let's quickly sum up some of
the key points of this video first of
all when should you trade stocks if you
are long term passive buy and hold
investor that likes to keep things
simple stocks are a better choice than
options furthermore if you don't want to
put a definite time limit to your trades
stocks are the way to
go since options always have a fixed
expiration date otherwise if you're
mainly active in illiquid markets such
as low cap stocks options aren't the
best choice due to their relative bad
liquidity in these markets if on the
other hand you prefer a more active
high-risk and high-reward trading style
options are a great alternative to drop
stocks the real power of options is that
they allow you to build 100% custom
trades that perfectly fit your portfolio
your risk profile and your market
assumption achieving this level of
versatility simply isn't possible with
dogs but before you can take advantage
of the benefits that options offer it is
fundamental to first truly understand
how options work this doesn't mean that
you need to buy some overpriced options
trading course but you should definitely
educate yourself extensively before
actually trading options you could for
instance check out my 100% free options
trading courses to start your options
trading journey with that being said I
hope this video gave you a good overview
of stock service options if you enjoyed
the video and learned something new make
sure to smash the like button subscribe
and turn on the notification Bella
thanks for watching
you